We warmly welcome all of you
to this edition of JW Broadcasting®!
March 8, 2025:
graduation day for the 157th class
of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
Fifty-four graduates
from 28 countries completed months
of intense Bible instruction.
Before receiving their diplomas,
what parting words of encouragement
did they receive
from members of the Governing Body,
their instructors,
and other experienced brothers?
We are pleased to share with you
parts of that graduation program,
which was held
at the Watchtower Educational Center
in Patterson, New York.
So, dear Gilead students, this is your day!
Can you believe it?
Graduation day, March 8, 2025.
It seems like just yesterday you were
being introduced to the Bethel family,
but how quickly five months passes!
Today you will become graduates.
And we’re thrilled to be here
with you on this special day!
Of course, this day will have
highs and lows,
maybe as you think about departing
and separating from your class 157 family.
You’ve become closer
than brothers and sisters during this time.
It will be bittersweet, perhaps,
as you contemplate departing.
One recent graduate expressed
that it is like having a wedding
and a funeral in the same day.
But during the past five months,
you’ve developed
a spiritual feeding program like no other
with study and preparation
in advance of each day in the classroom.
You remember the intensity.
You remember the blood, the sweat, the tears,
in a sense, as you prepared for classes,
as you prepared for tests
—the challenge
of keeping up with all of that.
Well, maybe the last couple of days
you’ve gone through Gilead withdrawal,
in a sense.
For that reason,
in my introductory comments,
I would like to address the theme
“Stay Hungry—Stay Thirsty.”
First, stay hungry.
Let’s consider two things
that you should continue to hunger for
moving forward
in your sacred service to Jehovah.
I invite you to open to Matthew chapter 5,
and notice with me, please, verse 3.
And you know what this verse says.
Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount
—Matthew 5:3—there he said:
“Happy are those
conscious of their spiritual need,
since the Kingdom of the heavens
belongs to them.”
So “happy are those
conscious of their spiritual need,”
or “those who are beggars for the spirit,”
as we note in the footnote,
or we might even say,
‘those who are hungry for spiritual food.’
What’s the point?
Stay hungry.
Be like a bear just before hibernation.
They enter a state called hyperphagia,
or increased appetite.
During that time period,
some bears consume 20,000 calories a day.
They’re searching for food
20 out of 24 hours a day.
Maybe during Gilead School,
you were hungry as a bear,
devouring food, eating it up spiritually
and, at times, maybe literally as well.
Are you hoping to shed a few pounds
after you depart school?
But in a spiritual sense,
what’s the major difference
between being hungry as a bear
prior to hibernation and you?
Well, you’re not going into hibernation.
There’s very little downtime
between the end of class
and starting in your theocratic assignments.
You can’t live off the fat
you’ve stored up at Gilead.
You can expect to face bigger tests
in your assignments
than you even had in the classroom.
So instead of a bear before hibernation,
let’s compare your situation
to a bird before migration.
They too enter a state called hyperphagia
to prepare them for their long flights,
to prepare them for the work ahead.
You might not be migrating
(although some of you will be, yes),
but maybe you received a new assignment
for which you need
to keep strengthening your spirituality.
What’s the key to success?
Stay hungry—stay hungry.
Will Jehovah satisfy your hunger?
Well, what can we learn
from a miracle that Jesus performed?
If you turn to John chapter 6,
notice with me, please, in verse 11,
one of Jesus’ miracles
where he fed a multitude
—John 6:11.
And again the question is,
Will Jehovah satisfy your spiritual hunger?
Notice what’s expressed here—John 6:11:
“Jesus took the bread,
and after giving thanks,
“he distributed it
to those who were sitting there;
“he did likewise with the small fish,
and they had as much as they wanted.”
Jesus multiplied five loaves and two fish
and fed possibly over 15,000 people.
How many people
is he feeding spiritually in our day?
Millions.
What was the result?
Back then “they had as much as they wanted.”
And so that’s true of you as well.
Stay hungry.
Continue to feed spiritually.
You can have as much as you want.
For instance,
what’s available in  JW Library®  alone?
Over 330 Morning Worship programs,
over ten years of broadcasts
—that’s more than
120 hours of spiritual food.
Three complete years
of regional conventions from 2020 to 2022
—we can watch them again if we choose.
That’s just some of the video content,
not to mention audio, including music.
And what about written publications?
Well, The Watchtower  magazines
go back to 1950;
the Awake!  magazines go back to 1970;
1,815 Watchtower  magazines are available;
1,011 Awake!  magazines
are available just in  JW Library.
Is Jehovah through his Son
providing meat in due season?
Absolutely!
Isaiah 25:6 says:
“In this mountain Jehovah of armies
“will make for all the peoples
a banquet of rich dishes,
“a banquet of fine wine,
of rich dishes filled with marrow,
of fine, filtered wine.”
We are well-fed spiritually.
We can have as much as we want.
Jehovah through his Son
provided in the first century;
is providing spiritually
for his people in our day.
Stay hungry.
Now, do you ever eat
your favorite meal and say,
‘I’ll never have that again’?
No, we keep coming back.
So, what’s the point in a spiritual sense?
Well, we can continue to feed
on some of the things
that we’ve enjoyed in the past.
Although we like to hear new things,
maybe refinements in our understanding,
it’s good to go back
and review what we already know
to drive in the nails, so to speak.
What’s the point?
Well, although we like to hear
new things at times,
go back to your Gilead notes.
Continue to drive in the nails.
Stay hungry.
Never become satiated, or fully satisfied.
At the end of a study period,
crave the next study period.
What’s next on the menu?
That’s our hunger for spiritual food.
Let’s consider one more hunger.
If you’re still there in Matthew,
notice Jesus’ words in verse 6:
“Happy are those hungering
and thirsting for righteousness,
since they will be filled.”
So who are such ones?
The study note says:
“That is, those who long to see
corruption and injustice replaced
“with God’s standards of right and wrong;
they strive to conform to those standards.”
So, what’s the point?
Stay hungry for Jehovah’s righteousness.
And how does Jehovah
satisfy our hunger for righteousness?
One Watchtower  stated this:
“Spiritual hunger
and thirst for righteousness
will be fully satisfied in the new world.”
So we “keep in expectation.”
Another Watchtower  stated:
“Let us not lose heart or be amazed
that oppression and violence have taken away
righteousness in the satanic world.”
So we do not become insensitive
to the circumstances,
the unrighteousness of this world.
We avoid the path of the ridiculors,
as mentioned at 2 Peter 3:4,
who say
that “all things are continuing exactly
as they were from creation’s beginning.”
No.
The world’s moral decay
is evidence that God’s Kingdom
and his righteousness are close at hand.
And how we take comfort in that!
Stay hungry for God’s righteousness,
confident that you will be filled.
So, dear Gilead students,
stay hungry for spiritual food.
Stay hungry for God’s righteousness.
What about staying thirsty?
Well, we’ll talk about that
at the end of the program.
The next part of our program
is something we always look forward to,
The Inside Story.
So this one will feature
interviews of Gilead students
from branches that care for nearly 25 percent
of the publishers worldwide.
Brother Trent Lippold,
another of the Gilead instructors,
will care for the interviews.
Which countries are these?
Let’s watch.
Welcome to The Inside Story.
In the book of Acts chapter 1, verse 8,
Jesus said to his disciples that they
would be witnesses of him
“to the most distant part of the earth.”
And today we are going to meet guests
from the 157th class
who are serving
in “distant part[s] of the earth.”
So let’s meet our first guest,
Brother Fernando Simão from Brazil.
Welcome, Fernando.
Thank you.
It’s good to have you on The Inside Story.
A pleasure.
You come from Brazil.
You’re serving at the branch there
in São Paulo.
Yes.
But I know there is a place in Brazil
that is very close to your heart.
Yes.
I love the Amazon region.
So, what is it about the Amazon region,
Fernando?
Maybe two words: the people.
Nice.
They are amazing.
I’m interested.
What is it about the people there?
They really accept the truth.
They have a good inclination to serve Jehovah
or to hear about God.
And it’s amazing because
we are able to preach to them all the time.
So, what is it like
to actually preach to them?
What’s it like to converse with them?
We can talk about many different matters.
But since they live
in the middle of the jungle,
the middle of the creation
that Jehovah made for us,
we can use that to help them.
And, of course, they face some challenges
that the new world will solve,
and this can be the matter
that we talk with them about.
Nice.
Now, how is it
that you first visited the Amazon?
I’ve been there many years ago.
We received in our house
a brother who went to MTS in São Paulo,
and he was serving at that time
on a boat over there.
And he invited us to visit.
And I went there with my two fleshly brothers
for the first time.
Nice.
So he started a fire in you . . .
Yes.
. . . for the Amazon region.
Have they had preaching campaigns
in the region?
Yes.
They had this a few years ago
—a big campaign with a lot of good results.
We saw an increase over there.
Many people are coming into the truth
—new congregations and new circuits.
And many brothers
are supporting the work over there.
You mentioned something
that really touched you
about the brothers who participated
in the preaching campaigns.
Can you tell us about that?
A few of them decided to stay.
They went just to support
for maybe one week or two weeks.
But then they noticed the need,
and they decided to stay.
They moved over there.
They are serving and taking the lead
in the congregation.
For me, it’s amazing.
I know that in Brazil
you have some SKE schools.
How has SKE been used to support
the work in the Amazon region?
They are sending, in the last years,
many brothers to serve over there.
After the school, they are assigned
to those congregations that need help.
And it’s been
an amazing gift from Jehovah, actually,
to help the growth over there.
Very nice.
Now, the Brazil branch
and Audio/Video Services (AVS)
have prepared a video about preaching . . .
Yes.
. . . in the Amazon region.
So I’m really looking forward to seeing
what it’s like there
and why it’s so special to you.
So let’s enjoy it together.
Let’s see.
Brazil is vast.
It is the largest country in South America
and the fifth largest in the world.
It contains a wide range of landscapes,
including wetlands, savannas,
mountains, and rainforests.
It is home to the largest river system
in the world,
the mighty Amazon.
We have about 920,000 publishers in Brazil.
New congregations and new circuits
are being formed every year,
with approximately
25,000 people getting baptized each year.
Yes, Brazil is on fire!
However, there is still
much work to be done.
Did you know?
There are more than
28 million people living
in the Amazon region of Brazil,
and hundreds of indigenous languages
are spoken there.
An incredible help has been
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers (SKE).
Here in Brazil,
we have two educational centers for SKE,
as well as some satellite locations.
In the past two years alone,
54 classes have been held.
The school is very focused
on the Amazon region
because there is such a need there.
In fact, a quarter of all graduates
from Brazil go to that area.
But once the graduates arrive,
they are not left on their own.
The local brothers teach them things
like what to say or not say
and how to act in certain situations.
The teachers are the local brothers.
The dynamics of preaching
in the Amazon region
involves traveling great distances.
I remember during our first visits
into the interior,
the local brothers would say, “Brother,
you need more time here
for us to go into the interior.”
And I thought, ‘I’m already in the interior!’
Then we discovered that there is an interior
of the interior,
which involves even more days of travel
and longer boat trips.
We graduated from SKE on October 6, 2024,
and we were assigned to the Amazonas region.
This made us a bit anxious at first
because we had no idea
what that area would be like
or if we would find work or not.
Honestly,
we expected it to be more difficult,
but it was completely the opposite.
We’re doing really well here.
This assignment has been a true gift for us.
Field service in the Amazon is great!
People are so receptive.
As you can see, Brazil is a big country
with a big heart to go with it.
Jehovah is indeed blessing
our hardworking brothers
and sisters
as they joyfully share
in reaching those
in the remote areas of Brazil.
That is amazing, Fernando!
Really, really impressive, the work
that’s going on there in that region.
Yeah.
May I ask you, What has been
your longest trip to the Amazon region?
I’ve been there for more than 20 days,
20-25 days, around that.
Good.
How long did it take you to get there?
Sometimes more than one day by boat.
This is what they call a slow boat.
We have fast boats and airplanes.
But it’s nice.
You can enjoy the trip.
It’s very beautiful—an amazing river.
Whatever way you go
to be able to preach the word, . . .
Yes.
. . . it’s a great privilege.
Thank you very much, Fernando.
And thanks for sharing your special place
with us here on The Inside Story.
A pleasure.
Let’s meet our next guests.
They’re Carla and Judah Curran,
from Central America.
Carla and Judah, nice to have you
here on The Inside Story.
You’re both serving presently
in Mexico at the Central America branch.
How long have you been in Mexico?
Seven years now, not too long.
We were serving in Honduras
in the field before that.
OK.
I know you come from Canada,
but how did you get to Honduras?
My parents.
So growing up, Mom and Dad
were always looking
for where to serve where the need was great.
So we moved a lot when I was a kid.
I have a brother and a sister.
So our family of five
was constantly on the move.
And when I was 15, Mom and Dad told us,
“We’re thinking next move: Honduras.”
So we thought, ‘OK, sounds fun.’
And, literally, we just packed our car
(everything we could
inside our car or on top of our car),
said goodbye to our family in Canada,
and drove from Canada to Honduras.
So as a kid,
a 15-year-old, Honduras became home.
The ministry became my life.
I started pioneering soon after we got there.
And I got appointed as a special pioneer.
So that was really nice to be assigned
to isolated areas of the country as well.
I got to serve on an island called Guanaja
in the Mosquito Coast—beautiful experiences
throughout the country.
Very nice.
Now, I know you told me
your dad is a planner.
So maybe to a 15-year-old, it felt like you
just packed the car and left, but—
He probably did more than that,
but it seemed like that.
Yeah.
What about you, Carla?
How did you get to Honduras?
Well, I was born in Ireland.
And my parents are from England.
They were both intrepid
when they were younger.
They moved to Ireland
to serve where the need was greater.
They met there, got married,
started special pioneering together.
And when my brother and I came along,
they carried on
special pioneering together with us.
So we were raised in the ministry.
And they really loved it,
and they helped us to love it as well.
So when I moved away from home
after I finished school,
I started pioneering.
Yeah, I just carried on
enjoying the ministry.
But around that time, there were a lot
of my friends who were reaching out
to serve where the need was greater abroad.
So that was something I, I don’t know—
It became a good goal for me as well,
to expand my ministry.
So one day, a friend invited me.
She sent me a message.
She said: “There’s a chance for us
to go to Honduras together.
It’s a small island called Guanaja,
in the middle of the Caribbean.”
It’s like, why not?
It doesn’t sound like something
you should turn down.
But at the time, I had no money;
I had nothing in the bank.
I was filling my car with two dollars’ worth
of petrol at a time.
We weren’t going very far.
And just at that time,
within the half hour of her message,
my work offered me a full-time position
just for a couple of months.
So I said yes.
So Jehovah gave me a way to go to Honduras.
So I went after three months of working,
and I arrived in a very small little island
in the middle of the Caribbean.
And a special pioneer
who had red hair picked me up in a boat.
And this was him.
We were married within the year.
You said, Judah,
that it became home for you.
Is there anything specific
about Honduras or Central America,
in Mexico, that made it feel like home?
Like Fernando said, the people.
And
when my family arrived to Honduras,
we saw it right away.
Like I mentioned, we drove to Honduras.
So seven days and a family of five
sitting together, you can imagine
what that journey would have been like.
But when arriving in the country,
we arrived in the middle of a hurricane,
which we didn’t know about
when we left Canada.
So on day seven coming into Honduras,
we caught Hurricane Mitch.
And we were driving through the country
in the pouring rain and got to a little town
where we got stuck.
There was no going forward.
The road was blocked by water.
We went back.
They had closed the bridge already.
So we couldn’t speak the language,
and we’re stuck in a little town.
So Dad just rolled the window down
and said all he could in Spanish:
“Testigos de Jehová,”
something like that in his broken Spanish:
“Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
He spoke better Spanish after that.
And sure enough,
the man who was there pointed.
There was a sister just there.
One of the, I think, seven publishers
in that town at the time.
So they took us in.
They were in the middle
of a hurricane, suffering,
and they were happy to have us.
They were feeding us fried chicken.
One of the sisters
had a little restaurant there.
We were excited about that.
So for a few days,
we were stuck in this town.
But what a welcome we got in their homes!
And that’s how it was everywhere we went.
Just into people’s homes
—they would love to have us.
It was such a warm family.
A warm welcome and hospitality—
How would you describe
the hospitality, Carla?
Yeah, I would say
that straightaway you’re in.
You’re in with them.
What do you mean by that?
As in there’s no breaking-the-ice phase.
There’s no warming-up-to-you phase.
It’s like straightaway,
as soon as you arrive in the congregation,
you’re in with them.
So you’re passing by their house,
for example,
and you’re thirsty; you’re hot:
They invite you in; they sit you
in front of a fan; they give you water.
You need a nap:
They have a bed; they have a hammock;
they have a porch, if you want a porch.
So their hospitality
is never just on their terms;
it’s to meet the needs that you have.
So whatever need you had at that time,
they were just willing to fill it.
Nice.
They can pick you up at the airport too.
Yeah.
This is very nice.
I learned it quickly.
Judah, for you
as a young, single special pioneer,
did you enjoy the hospitality?
I did.
And I have to say
that it was kind of embarrassing,
the hospitality I was shown,
so much so that I pretty much never cooked.
So—
He still doesn’t.
And that’s why
I never got to learn how to cook.
They were just too hospitable
in the assignments that I was in.
Thank you, brothers and sisters.
Very, very nice, yeah,
that just makes it home,
going to a distant land
and to be so warmly welcomed.
In fact, there was
an expression they would use
when they would invite me over.
They’d say: “Just come on in.
We’ll add more water to the soup.”
So that was the expression
no matter what they were eating.
It was a figurative expression,
but it was beautiful.
Do you have an expression
like that in Portuguese?
Yes, we add water to the beans, yeah,
but the same idea.
Yes.
Nice.
What about the ministry though?
What is it like to preach
in the areas where you’ve served?
In Central America,
in Honduras where we were,
there’s just such a respect for the Bible.
So it was so easy to start conversations.
And that meant getting to know our Bibles.
I remember when we got there,
I’d not used the Bible much in the ministry,
maybe a verse I’d memorized.
But then I’d be going in service
with families
that had kids (maybe ten years old)
who knew all these scriptures,
different ones they were reading.
And I’m like, ‘How do they know
so many verses in the Bible?’
But then just going more in service,
I realized it’s
because everybody wants to hear the Bible.
So that was really nice,
getting to know the Scriptures.
What about for you, Carla?
So coming from Ireland to Honduras,
was there much of a learning curve for you?
Yeah, the same as Judah,
just getting to know your Bible.
So maybe you’re used to using
just one or two scriptures at a door.
You had your favorites.
But there you could just,
like, use the whole range of the Bible.
So that was really nice,
getting to know the Bible better
and also getting to know the publications
because there are so many opportunities
to conduct Bible studies.
So you really got familiar with them
and the publications.
And also something I really appreciated
was you’d arrive
at their house,
and they weren’t expecting you,
but they sat you down,
and they got their Bible out.
And as you were speaking,
they would take notes and underline.
So seeing their appreciation
for the Bible really helped
and kind of like cemented it down for you
as well, just how amazing the Bible is.
Oh, what a beautiful experience, so nice!
The branch in Central America,
along with AVS, has prepared a nice video
for us to be able to see some of these areas
and and perhaps some of this hospitality.
I’m looking forward to seeing it with you.
Me too.
Central America is a large region of land
that includes the countries of Panama,
Costa Rica,
Nicaragua,
Honduras,
El Salvador,
Guatemala,
and Belize.
It extends in an arc
roughly 1,800 kilometers,
or 1,100 miles, in length
from the northwest to the southeast.
And no matter where you live
in Central America,
you are never more than 200 kilometers,
or 125 miles away, from the sea.
By September 2012,
the preaching work
in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama
all came under the supervision
of the Central America branch in Mexico.
What efforts are being made
to reach honesthearted ones
in some of the diverse areas
of Central America?
It has truly been a beautiful experience
to be here in El Salvador.
The training that we received
at the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
has been so helpful because it taught us
that beyond delivering a message,
it is important to have empathy
and really listen and understand people.
Well, people here are quite religious
and devoted to their faith.
I try to demonstrate Christian qualities,
like those we are learning
in the Love People—Make Disciples  brochure.
Today, we observe people
and listen to what they want to express.
We wait for the right moment
to preach to them.
That indicates that Jehovah
is blessing the efforts we make
to find the deserving ones.
Here in La Ceiba,
we preach in different languages,
for example, sign language, Miskito,
Garifuna, and Spanish.
Jehovah has really blessed
the efforts of the publishers here.
The local people
are amazed when one greets them
in their language.
And that is something
that has been very positive.
We also have the use of jw.org.
And their faces shine
when they are shown
a video in their language.
They are completely amazed and very happy
that we have made videos in their language.
We have seen
Jehovah’s blessing in the territory
and also seen the support from our brothers.
Feeling like we have many partners
to preach with,
to make return visits with,
and to conduct Bible studies with
—this makes the ministry even more enjoyable.
Mexico City
is one of the largest cities in the world.
The main city
has a population of over nine million.
Many languages are spoken
—not just the main languages
like English, Spanish, French
but also indigenous languages.
The number of languages
present a big challenge,
because how do we reach all those people?
Well, one thing that has really helped is
public witnessing.
We have, for example,
over 24 locations
for special metropolitan witnessing
just in Mexico City.
So that opens up a big opportunity
to reach people
in their native language.
So recently two groups
were formed in Haitian Creole.
It’s beautiful to welcome people
who speak another language
and to be able to learn it to transmit
Jehovah’s message in that language.
As you can see, Central America’s
diversity is also its beauty.
Jehovah’s people
are “[reflecting] like mirrors”
his great love
by reaching out to people of all
nationalities, tongues, and backgrounds.
Remarkable!
Thank you so much for that.
It’s amazing to see the variety
of places and the work
that’s being done there.
I noticed there’s a lot of water.
A lot of water, a lot of beaches
—do you swim there?
Yes, on the island where we were,
pretty much every week
we would spend a nice day at the beach,
enjoying the water and snorkeling.
Crystal clear, beautiful.
Miss it.
Crystal clear.
A lot of water in the Amazon region
—do you swim there?
Yes,
but it’s not crystal and clear all the time.
And sometimes we have
crocodiles and piranhas.
We need to look.
Yeah, but it’s possible to do that.
But again, Judah and Carla,
just a beautiful spirit we see
in the brothers and sisters there
and the hard work.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for letting us talk to you
about the amazing preaching work
there in Central America.
Thank you.
Let’s meet our next guests.
They’re Christian and Karina Zaguetti,
from the Philippines.
Christian and Karina, welcome.
Thank you for being here with us
on The Inside Story.
So you both are serving in the Philippines
at the Philippines branch.
But you’re not from the Philippines;
you’re from Brazil.
So how did you get
from Brazil to the Philippines?
That’s a good question.
I’m asking myself how I ended up there.
So actually we got transferred
from the Brazil branch
to the Philippines branch
for a project for the Computer Department,
initially for two years.
“Initially.”
It’s a long project.
Yes, we’ve been there
for almost 15 years now.
That’s beautiful though.
But how did it happen?
What was it that happened
that got you to the Philippines?
Yes, so we got an invitation.
There were possibilities
for us to serve in another branch.
So I was serving single
in Brazil for 12 years.
Then we got married.
I was there.
Fernando was there.
Fernando was there?
Yeah.
Yeah, he was in our wedding.
We got approved to stay in Bethel.
And then just few months
after we got married,
we had this possibility to serve
in another branch.
But we considered.
Yeah.
We talked about it; we prayed about it
—maybe, maybe another time.
New in Bethel.
But you ended up in the Philippines.
Yeah, just three months later,
this next opportunity came,
a new invitation to go to the Philippines.
So we realized that Jehovah
wanted us to go to a foreign assignment.
And we prayed about it, and we said yes.
We didn’t want to be like Jonah and say no.
So we’re like, “Let’s go.”
Oh, well, Jonah was a courageous prophet.
That’s true.
And you’re courageous.
Jonah went to his assignment.
And here you are in the Philippines,
so it’s a long way from home.
What would you say that helped
make the Philippines your home?
Definitely the brotherhood,
Jehovah’s organization.
It’s truly a big family.
And being so far from home,
we can feel the love from the brothers
in the congregation and in the Bethel family
—how they welcomed us,
how they always were so concerned
for our well-being,
and also how they always went
out of their way to care for us.
So it was beautiful to see,
and that definitely made us feel at home
pretty quickly.
I’m sure it would.
Can you think of an example, Christian,
of how they did that for you?
Well, the brothers, they did so many things
for us to make us feel at home.
So, I think, one thing
that touched our hearts was . . .
Yeah.
. . . when we were still having
the food arrangement at Bethel.
So we had to go down to the dining hall
to have breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
So we had this single brother at our table,
the Bethel table in the dining hall,
and he was
from one of the distant provinces
in the country.
And we were having
a little bit of a hard time
having fish and rice for breakfast.
So we’re still trying.
Fish and rice.
Yes, big eyes.
Big eyes and with the tail
—the whole fish is there.
So this brother,
I think he was concerned about us,
and he said,
“Hey, what is your favorite food?”
I didn’t have anything to say at the moment.
I just thought about maybe
a hamburger with fries.
I think that’s my favorite food, I guess.
So instead of fish and rice for breakfast,
hamburger and fries for breakfast.
I would say for lunch and dinner.
So then the following day,
right in front of our Bethel room,
there was a package there.
Yeah.
And the brother gave it to us.
And he was concerned about our well-being.
So it was amazing.
It was just a little thing
but among so many others.
It meant a lot.
Yeah.
Made for us to feel at home.
So in the package was a hamburger and fries.
A hamburger and fries.
It made him happy.
Definitely.
That’s true.
Well, it would make you feel at home.
Yeah, that’s absolutely beautiful.
And so you’re serving at the branch.
The branch is in Manila.
Manila is one of the most densely
populated cities in the world.
So, what is preaching like
in the city of Manila?
Yeah, that’s true.
It’s one of the most densely populated
cities in the world.
It’s a lot of people everywhere.
But the good thing is that they are really—
It is not hard to talk to people
about the truth
or about the Bible, especially the Bible,
like Judah mentioned and Fernando
mentioned about these regions.
So they have a real respect for the Bible.
So we have all these arrangements
in place like street witnessing,
metropolitan witnessing, cart witnessing.
We have a variety of business territories
to cover,
and we also have mall witnessing.
Mall witnessing?
Mall witnessing is an interesting form
of preaching.
Yeah, it’s hard
not get distracted by the stores.
And I love the coffee shops there.
But it’s interesting.
You can still meet and talk to people
in these areas,
and they are fine if you approach them
at the right moment, the right time.
You mean in the coffee shop?
In the coffee shop,
it can be in the coffee shop.
Now I see why Christian loves coffee so much.
Yeah.
I would like to try to find a shopping mall
in the middle of the Amazon rainforest . . .
. . . with a coffee shop.
With a coffee shop, yeah, it would be nice.
Again, the branch in the Philippines
and AVS have prepared a video.
We’re looking forward to seeing
what preaching is like in the Philippines,
particularly in the Metropolitan Manila area.
So let’s look at it.
The Philippines is an island country
of Southeast Asia,
located in the Pacific Ocean.
It consists of more than 7,000 islands
and islets
about 800 kilometers,
or 500 miles, off the coast of Vietnam.
Did you know that the Philippines
is the second most populous Asian country
with English as an official language,
following India?
The capital, Manila,
is part of a greater metropolitan region
known as Metropolitan Manila.
Interestingly, while this is the smallest
region in the Philippines,
it is also the most densely populated,
being home to over 13 million Filipinos.
What is it like to preach
in this densely populated area?
More than 10 percent
of the publishers in the Philippines
reside in Metro Manila.
That is over 30,000 publishers.
Interestingly, over 9,400 of them
serve as regular pioneers.
Metro Manila is a city of contrasts.
It has high buildings
in its central business districts.
It also has informal settlements
in narrow streets and alleyways.
A street of less than a kilometer (0.6 mi)
can be home to hundreds of families.
Some congregations in our circuit,
especially those that are
in the metropolitan area,
are assigned to work on
many apartment buildings.
So the congregation’s body of elders
have trained specific individuals
to be able to penetrate
these areas effectively.
Some areas in Metro Manila
are so densely populated
that we don’t always have
accurate maps or specific addresses
for everyone.
So it can be a real challenge to determine
whether these areas
have been well covered or not.
But thanks to good theocratic training
and useful online tools,
these areas are getting mapped out.
The Filipino Sign Language territory
is an interesting field in Metro Manila.
Many brothers and sisters
have learned sign language
in order to help the deaf ones
learn the good news.
We can see Jehovah’s blessing
through the fulfillment of Haggai 2:7.
It feels as though Jehovah is indeed
‘shaking these territories
so that the precious ones,’
those rightly disposed hearts,
will come to his organization and serve him.
Personally, it’s very encouraging to see
how the brothers and sisters
endure faithfully and joyfully.
They endure not because
they do not have a choice.
They endure because they are happy,
doing God’s work
and loving the people.
Yes, as you can see, the Philippines
is a preaching paradise.
Jehovah is making sure that no one
gets missed in this historic time of the end.
Wow!
There is so much being done
and so much work to do.
Let me ask you this, though
(the brother mentioned there are
so many publishers
in the Metro Manila area
and a lot of regular pioneers):
Even with so many publishers there,
is there still a need?
Yeah, there’s still a need.
Yeah, it’s actually one of the regions
in the country
that there is growth in publishers.
As a matter of fact,
nearly 20 percent of those
who were baptized in the Philippines
were coming from this particular area
in Manila, in the Manila region.
So there is growth there for sure.
Yeah.
Wow, interesting!
Thank you so much.
Christian and Karina,
thank you so much for being here.
And thank you for your self-sacrificing
spirit in being in the Philippines,
making it your home, and supporting
the work that’s going on there.
And we say thank you to all of you
for being with us on The Inside Story
and your self-sacrificing spirit
to support the preaching work.
Jesus said the fields
“are white for harvesting.”
And by what we’ve seen today,
indeed they are!
And it’s beautiful to see the spirit
—the intrepid spirit—
of our brothers and sisters in preaching
the good news of God’s Kingdom
and also to see the support
of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
to help this work grow worldwide.
We look forward to seeing all of you
on another edition of The Inside Story.
Well, the time has now come
for the principal talk of this graduation.
It will be presented
by a member of the Governing Body,
Brother Mark Sanderson.
And he has chosen the theme
“The Desirable Thing In a Man Is . . .”
Let’s give him our attention.
It is “as high as the heavens.”
It “fills the earth.”
It is extended “to a thousand generations.”
And it “endures forever.”
What is it?
It is one of Jehovah’s
most beautiful qualities
—his loyal love.
Now, what is loyal love?
Well, one of our publications says this:
‘Loyal love defies a concise definition
in many languages.’
And I’d like to say English is one of them.
Trying to find a concise definition
is not easy,
but I’ll take a stab at it.
The “Glossary of Bible Terms”
in the New World Translation  says this:
“[Loyal love refers] to love
motivated by commitment,
integrity, loyalty, and deep attachment.”
Another reference says this:
“It is kindness
“that lovingly attaches itself to persons,
“becoming evident
in continual kind [actions].”
Did you get that,
“becoming evident
in continual kind [actions]”?
But perhaps the best reference
that I’ve found
was the one that said this:
“The best way to grasp the essence
of the Biblical expression ‘[loyal love]’
“is by studying how God treated
his true worshippers
down through the ages.”
Isn’t that true?
We think about how Jehovah
protected and fed the Israelites
when they were
in the wilderness for 40 years.
When he brought them
into the Promised Land,
he gave them judges
to rescue them from their enemies.
He gave them prophets
to rescue them and bring them back
when they got involved in false worship.
And because Jehovah stuck with them
in good times
and in the very most difficult of times,
Jehovah could say this to the nation.
Let’s read it
—Jeremiah 31:3.
About midway down the verse,
Jehovah says:
“I have loved you
with an everlasting love.
That is why I have drawn you to me
with loyal love.”
Well, that is so true.
We are drawn to Jehovah
because of his loyal love for us.
We can trust it.
We can rely on it in good times
and in the very most difficult of times
in our lives.
We are always living in expectation
of Jehovah’s loyal love,
which he manifests
in his continual kind acts
toward each of us.
Brothers, don’t we love
Jehovah’s loyal love?
Well, while we can never equal Jehovah
in showing loyal love,
the Scriptures do show
that this is a quality
that we as humans
must display toward others.
Now, let’s read together what it says
in Proverbs chapter 3
—Proverbs 3:3.
It says: “Do not let loyal love
“and faithfulness leave you.
“Tie them around your neck;
write them on the tablet of your heart.”
So, what do you learn from that?
We are expected by Jehovah
to display loyal love.
But how do we as humans
display loyal love to other people?
Well, just as Jehovah’s loyal love
causes him to attach himself to us
with commitment and loyalty,
well, we want to attach ourselves to others,
not simply with warm and fuzzy feelings,
but with continual, enduring,
steadfast acts of kindness
that demonstrate our loyal love.
Now, why is this an important topic
for all of you who are graduating today?
Well, let’s consider three reasons.
Here’s the first:
You have all been recipients
of loyal love from others.
Now, how did you get here to Gilead?
Now, I don’t mean how did you get here
to the auditorium this morning.
But how is it that you
got to this point in your life
that today you are graduating
from the Gilead School?
It’s good for all of you to pause now
and reflect on that question.
Who were the people who loved you?
Who were the people who helped you
so that you could be here today graduating?
Who stood by you
in good times and in bad times?
Maybe some of you think
of your dear parents,
some of whom
might be here today in the audience.
If you are, this is a happy day, right?
I don’t need to ask.
Maybe it was the brother or sister
who studied the Bible with you.
Maybe it was the circuit overseer
who encouraged you when you were young
or that older sister in the congregation
who believed in you
and encouraged you to pioneer
or to put in your application for Bethel.
Well, today is a day for you
to look through the photo album of your heart
and consider all of the people
who have shown loyal love to you
and have encouraged you
all along the way
and then to be like Jehovah
and show loyal love to them.
Maybe you write them a card,
send them a letter or an email,
maybe a text message or a gift
—you see, some kind act
to maintain that bond
of loyal love between you.
And how are you benefited by doing so?
Well, among other things,
it helps to keep you humble and modest.
Always remembering that the things
that you have achieved thus far
and whatever you may achieve
in the future
is not solely due to your efforts
but is, in large part, due to the loyal love
that you have experienced from Jehovah
and from so many other loyal friends.
And never underestimate the power
of a simple act of loyal love.
You know, one day
I suddenly began to think about a couple
who had helped us so much
during the court cases in Moscow.
I decided to just send them
a brief text message
just to see how they were doing,
to check on them,
to let them know
I was thinking about them.
And just a few minutes later,
a text came back:
“Brother Mark, we can’t believe
you wrote to us right now.
“We were both on our knees,
praying to Jehovah,
“begging him for some encouragement
when suddenly
we heard ‘ding’ on our phone.”
Prove yourselves to be
like your heavenly Father
by demonstrating loyal love
to all of the people who have loved you
and who have helped you
to be sitting in these front rows
of this auditorium today.
Here’s the second:
In your assignments, you brothers
who are graduating
are going to serve,
in one sense or another, as overseers.
Now, always demonstrate loyal love
to the brothers and sisters
whom you’re going to oversee and care for.
Now, that sounds like
a very obvious statement, doesn’t it?
And yet, for us as humans,
it can be challenging.
Well, why so?
Well, as we’ve discussed,
when it comes to humans,
loyal love involves a bond
between two people
and the continual kind deeds
that occur between them
that create this lasting bond.
But now, here’s the challenge.
You see, as imperfect humans,
we may be very quick to form a bond
with people whom we feel
a connection with
—people who have similar abilities,
similar talents, similar interests.
If you work in the Service Department,
you’re drawn to the circuit overseers,
the missionaries,
the special pioneers, the desk men.
They’re all wonderful!
If you’re a translator,
oh, you love the translators!
“That brother helped
to translate the Bible, my!”
Right?
So you just love them
and can’t get enough of them.
If you work in the Legal Department,
you even love the lawyers.
Oh, sorry, we all love the lawyers, sorry.
We love you all.
And so on and so on.
You see, we all love
those wonderful, capable people
whom we easily admire and look up to.
But here’s a question,
What about all the faithful people?
What about
all the faithful servants of Jehovah
whom we just don’t have
that immediate connection with?
Let me be far more clear:
What about all the faithful people
who are just plain annoying?
You know who you are.
People who won’t take your phone calls.
Well, what are we going to do
with all of those people?
Well, we have an answer because,
just to be quite frank with you,
the Bible is filled with annoying people.
Now, we all love Abraham, right?
We all love Abraham.
But now, if you go to Genesis chapter 18—
We’re not going to read all of this,
but I’m just going to remind you
of this account that you know well
—Genesis 18.
And, you know, we go down here,
and we hear Abraham praying to Jehovah.
It begins about verse 24.
And Abraham begins to go
into this thing with Jehovah:
‘Jehovah, what if there are 50?’
See?
‘What if there are 45?
‘What if there are 40?
‘What if there are 30?
‘What if there are 20?
What if there are ten?’
That’s annoying.
It’s just annoying.
Sorry.
But now, what did Jehovah do
with that man who was a bit annoying?
He loved him.
He loyally stuck by him.
And although Abraham had been dead
for more than a thousand years,
He continued to call him
“Abraham my friend.”
That’s real loyal love.
What about Peter?
Peter could be very annoying.
Now, think about just one occasion,
Matthew chapter 17
—Matthew 17.
Now, here, here’s Jesus,
and it’s the occasion of the transfiguration.
This is a miraculous event, right?
So here Peter is watching
as Jesus is being transfigured,
and he sees him speaking
with Moses and Elijah.
What an event!
Right?
Wouldn’t it be exciting to see this,
this supernatural event?
And what does Peter say?
‘Hey, let’s put up tents,
and we can go camping.’
That is annoying.
But it doesn’t end there.
Of course, Peter went on
to deny Jesus three times.
That’s annoying.
But what did Jesus do
with that man who could be so annoying?
He gave him “the keys of the Kingdom.”
He entrusted him
with great responsibility.
He showed true loyal love
to that annoying man.
So, what’s the point?
As you work as overseers
and you deal with your brothers and sisters
—even the annoying ones—
remember the principle,
the simple principle,
that Jesus stated at Luke chapter 6.
Will you read it with me?
Let’s read it, Luke 6:32:
“If you love those loving you,
of what credit is it to you?
“For even the sinners
love those loving them.
“And if you do good
to those doing good to you,
“of what credit is it to you?
Even the sinners do the same.”
So demonstrate loyal love,
not just to those whom you feel
that immediate connection with,
but to all the faithful ones
whom you will oversee and care for.
Work to form a bond of love,
even with the annoying ones.
And here’s the third:
People in your assignments
need your loyal love.
You see, the stated purpose of Gilead
is to train men and women
who can strengthen
and stabilize God’s people.
Well, now, who are those people?
Who are they?
They’re simple, humble,
faithful men and women
who are just trying their best
to serve Jehovah.
Some are widows, some are orphans,
some are elderly,
others are victims of natural disasters
and calamities of every sort.
Some are facing devastating diseases,
while others are imprisoned for their faith.
All of these people
need for you
to loyally attach yourself to them,
to reassure them of your love
through your continual kind deeds.
Well, to do so
is going to require
more than just warm feelings.
It’s going to take your time.
It’s going to take your emotional energy.
But this is what Jehovah
instructs us to do
at Zechariah 7:9.
Will you read it with me
—Zechariah 7:9?
It says: “This is what
Jehovah of armies says,
“‘Judge with true justice,
“‘and deal with one another
in loyal love and mercy.’”
So Jehovah instructs us
to “deal with one another in loyal love.”
Showing loyal love
for your brothers and sisters
who are struggling or who are suffering
will show that you really got the point
of your Gilead training
and that you are in your assignments
to strengthen and to stabilize
—to loyally love and support—
your brothers and sisters.
Remember
—remember—
they need
—they need—
your loyal love.
Well, what have we learned
in this discussion?
Loyal love
is one of the most beautiful qualities
of our amazing God, Jehovah.
But Jehovah also expects
that we are going to display
loyal love to one another,
that we will go through
the photo album of our heart
and remember those
who have displayed loyal love to us,
that we will loyally love all of those
under our oversight
(even the annoying ones),
and that we will reach out with loyal love
to those who are suffering
and who most need
our kindness and attention.
Well, if you work hard in these ways
to display loyal love,
what can all of you
who are graduating today expect?
We know that you will be deeply loved
by our heavenly Father, Jehovah,
but also by all your brothers and sisters
whom you are going to serve.
And how do we know this?
Well, it’s because of something
the Bible says here
at Proverbs 19:22.
Proverbs 19:22 says:
“The desirable thing in a man
is his loyal love.”
So may the blessing of Jehovah
go with all of you wherever you go.
And may you never forget
that “the desirable thing in a man
is his loyal love.”
So now the time has come
for the presentation of the diplomas.
Brother Michael Banks,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will assist me
with the names and assignments.
We have Brother and Sister Angel.
They have been assigned
to the Colombia branch.
Sister Bords
will return to the United States branch.
Brother and Sister Chibuye
will return to the Zambia branch.
Brother and Sister Chumbu
will return to the Malawi branch.
Brother and Sister Curran
will return to the Central America branch.
Brother Dakramanji
will return to the Canada branch.
Brother and Sister Flynn
will return to the Colombia branch.
Sister Harli
will return to the Indonesia branch.
Brother and Sister Hemmink
will return to the Netherlands branch.
Brother and Sister Hernandez
will return to the United States branch.
Brother and Sister Hissem have been
assigned to the Central Europe branch.
Brother Kaiser
will return to the Central Europe branch.
Sister Makure
will return to the Papua New Guinea branch.
Brother Pavičar
will return to the Serbia branch.
Brother and Sister Petropoulos
will return to the Greece branch.
Brother Phiri
has been assigned to the Uganda branch.
Brother Pocero
will return to the Spain branch.
Brother and Sister Quinçay
will return to the New Caledonia branch.
Brother and Sister Ribble
have been assigned to the Ethiopia branch.
Brother Saldaña
will return to the Peru branch.
Brother and Sister Sánchez
will return to the Haiti branch.
Brother Simão
will return to the Brazil branch.
Brother and Sister Stephenson
have been assigned to the Brazil branch.
Brother and Sister Stock
will return to the Central Europe branch.
Brother and Sister Tóth
will return to the Hungary branch.
Sister Vargová
will return to the Czech-Slovak branch.
Brother Walthéry
will return to the Netherlands branch.
Brother and Sister Zaguetti
have been assigned to the Brazil branch.
Brother Zurru
will return to the Italy branch.
Michael had the hard part.
Well, would you like to see the entire class?
Gilead class 157,
we’re happy that we don’t
have to say Jegar-sahadutha,
as Brother Splane mentioned
in a previous graduation,
which is the Aramaic term for Gilead.
But at this time,
we’d like to have Brother Sebastian Stock,
who will read a letter
from the graduating class.
“To the Governing Body:
“Over the past five months,
“we have ‘seen our Grand Instructor
with our own eyes.’
“We journeyed through his Word
and now our hearts
“are overflowing with love,
gratitude, and trust in him.
“When we began our Gilead training,
“we often viewed scriptures
as individual puzzle pieces
“selected and applied to certain situations.
“Now we have experienced
how these pieces come together
“to reveal a unified
and complete mosaic of Bible truth.
“We thank you for the undeserved privilege
“to dig deep into
and immerse ourselves in God’s Word.
“We appreciate the time and energy
that you shared with our class.
“We benefited not only from the lectures
“but also from the attention
you dedicated to us afterwards.
“We have been strengthened
and encouraged by your humility
“and how you have cultivated
‘the mind of Christ.’
“Your deep love and respect
for Jehovah’s Word motivates us
“to continue to build our own appreciation.
“Your self-sacrificing spirit
encourages us to imitate your example.
“We are thankful that Jehovah
uses you as a means
“to ‘instruct us about the good way
in which we should walk.’
“We are grateful for our instructors.
“They helped us to ‘peer into
the perfect law’ of God’s Word,
“discern its principles,
and make personal application.
“Enthusiasm for the Bible accounts
brought them to life
“and helped get the words off the page
and into our minds and hearts.
“Their dedication to the art of teaching
reinforced our desire
“to give our all each and every day
“so that we could
fully benefit from the class.
“We want to express our gratitude
“to the entire Theocratic Schools Department
“for their tireless efforts behind the scenes
“to make our busy daily routine
as smooth as possible.
“Additionally, we are grateful
to the U.S. Bethel family
“for their hospitality and generosity.
“They have shown us in a practical way
what it means
“to show love and kindness to strangers.
“Knowing that they demonstrate
“this love to every class year after year
“must certainly make
our heavenly Father smile.
“Your beautiful example touched our hearts!
“As we depart for our assignments,
“we have in mind David’s words:
“‘Be courageous and strong and go to work.
“‘Do not be afraid or be terrified,
“for Jehovah God, my God, is with you.’
“Thank you for this indescribable gift
of being trained
“to help strengthen and stabilize
his people wherever we may serve.
Your brothers, Class 157.”
It has been accomplished.
You’re now graduates.
And we’re proud of you,
not for the academic achievement that you’ve
striven for during this class,
but the remarkable effect
—the wisdom, the love that you’ve
developed during this divine education.
We anticipate
the strengthening and stabilizing
that you will do
in your respective branch territories.
Now, in the introduction we discussed
the need for all of us to stay hungry.
Well, what about staying thirsty?
Let’s consider that for just a moment.
Let’s discuss one thirst
that we need to quench every single day.
I invite you to open to Psalm 143
and notice with me, please, verses 5 and 6
—Psalm 143:5, 6.
There David said:
“I remember the days of old;
“I meditate on all your activity;
I eagerly ponder over the work of your hands.
“I spread out my hands to you;
I am like a parched land
that thirsts for you.”
So David thirsted for Jehovah.
Thirst for Jehovah
as a parched land thirsts for water.
Water makes the land revive;
it makes it flourish.
Like a dry, crusty riverbed in Africa
is revived and flourishes when distant rains
come and saturate the soil,
so we want to satisfy our thirst
for Jehovah on a daily basis.
How?
How do we do that?
Well, we want to continue to learn more
about our Father on a daily basis,
digging into his Word.
Hosea 6:3 says:
“We will know, we will earnestly seek
to know Jehovah. . . .
“He will come to us like a pouring rain,
like a spring rain that saturates the earth.”
Even at Gilead, you have only learned
“the fringes of [Jehovah’s] ways.”
So there’s so much more that’s available
through the organization,
through Jehovah’s organization.
Keep thirsting, keep learning.
So learn about Jehovah.
Another thing:
Maintain a regular routine of prayer.
“Pray constantly”
is what 1 Thessalonians 5:17 tells us.
The study note says:
“Paul was not expecting the Thessalonians
to pray at every moment.
Rather, he was encouraging them
to have a prayerful attitude.”
So thirst for Jehovah.
Keep your relationship with him close.
Always look to Jehovah.
And will Jehovah satisfy your thirst for him?
Absolutely!
We can learn something
from what occurred in Samson’s life.
It’s found in Judges chapter 15.
And just as we had assurance earlier
that Jehovah will care
for your spiritual hunger
he will care for your thirst as well.
Judges chapter 15, interestingly,
verses 17 through 19 describe Samson’s life.
He had just experienced, as the verse says,
that “Jehovah’s spirit empowered him.”
He became absorbed
in a theocratic assignment,
fighting Jehovah’s enemies the Philistines
and “with the jawbone of a donkey”
killing a thousand Philistines.
Then what?
Verse 17 says: “When he finished speaking,
“he threw the jawbone away
and called that place Ramath-lehi.
“Then he became very thirsty,
“and he called on Jehovah and said:
“‘It was you who gave this great salvation
into the hand of your servant.
“But now am I to die of thirst and fall
into the hands of the uncircumcised?’
“So God split open a hollow that was in Lehi,
“and water flowed from it.
“When he drank,
“his spirit returned and he revived.
“That is why he named
the place En-hakkore,
which is in Lehi to this day”
—”En-hakkore,”
where Jehovah split open a hollow
to satisfy Samson’s thirst,
his spirit returned, and he revived.
So, what’s the point?
There’s no antitypical jawbone of a donkey.
No.
But in future days you will certainly be busy
in theocratic assignments,
just as Samson was.
Be sure to return to En-hakkore regularly
and revive your spirit
by drawing close to our God.
He is a lifeline to your success.
Stay hungry, and stay thirsty,
dear Gilead graduates.
For this Gilead graduation
and for any occasion
of eating and drinking at Jehovah’s table,
may our hearts’ sentiments
be those of the psalmist
at Psalm 107:1, 9.
There it says: “Give thanks to Jehovah,
for he is good;
his loyal love endures forever.”
That ties in with Brother Mark’s talk too.
Verse 9 says:
“For he has satisfied the thirsty
and filled the hungry with good things.”
So all praise goes to Jehovah
for his bounteous spiritual gifts to us.
So, dear Gilead graduates,
stay hungry for spiritual food
and for God’s righteousness.
Stay thirsty for Jehovah on a daily basis,
and he, our loving Father,
will continue to fill you up
with an abundance of rich dishes.
We love you all very much.
How faith-strengthening and encouraging
not only for the Gilead graduates
but for each of us!
And there’s more!
In the coming weeks,
look for additional talks
from the graduation in the  JW Library  app
and in the Videos section on jw.org.
For this month’s postcard,
we travel to the Netherlands.
The Netherlands means “the lowlands,”
a fitting name for a country with more than
a quarter of its land below sea level
and nearly 20 percent reclaimed from the sea,
lakes, and marshes.
Iconic windmills
and wooden shoes are reminders
that managing water is a way of life here.
An ingenious system of dunes, dikes, pumps,
and barriers protects against floods.
“Life’s water” of Bible truth
started flowing into this land
in the early 1900’s.
By the beginning of World War II,
there were
about 500 Jehovah’s Witnesses here.
They suffered severe persecution
by the occupying Nazis.
Over 300 of our brothers
were deported to concentration camps.
Sadly, more than 130 of them died.
Despite these challenges,
with Jehovah’s help
and the faithful stand
of our brothers and sisters,
the preaching work accelerated.
In August 1945,
at the first convention held after the war,
4,000 were in attendance.
Today, about 30,000 Witnesses
zealously preach here.
The number of regular and special pioneers
increased a total of 36 percent
in the last three years.
You’ll see bicycles
just about everywhere in the Netherlands.
Nearly 30 percent of all journeys
are made by bicycle.
Our brothers and sisters love
to engage in the ministry on two wheels.
In a country known for its many waterways,
publishers preach from boat to boat
and from ship to ship,
such as in Rotterdam,
which manages the biggest harbor in Europe.
We end our visit in Leiden,
a beautiful, historic city.
This is where the famous
Dutch painter Rembrandt
was born in 1606.
One of the two congregations
in Leiden is De Kooi.
Their territory is close to the tulip fields,
which bloom from April to May
and attract millions of tourists every year.
Traditional Dutch cuisine
is known for herring,
pastries, and stroopwafels,
a delicious treat made up
of two waffle cookies held together by syrup.
Dutch cheeses are known throughout the world,
including Edam and Gouda,
named for the towns in which they originated.
Many of the De Kooi Congregation’s
129 publishers
visited the picturesque
Meerburgermolen windmill
to send you their love and affection.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!